title: No competition is no excuse for being mediocre
author: Scott Klein
date: 2010/12/25
category: Startups

Back in November, I was privileged enough to do a "working vacation" to go spend a couple weeks with my girlfriend in South Dakota. While we were visiting Rapid City and the Black Hills area, we settled for the night at a quaint little tourist town - Hill City, SD - that was all but dead due to the cold weather and it being November (a lot of little cities around Mt. Rushmore are funded in large part by tourist dollars). The place we stayed at was a restaurant on the bottom and 8 rooms up top for people to sleep in.


I should note that this was one of the only restaurants in town. They very easily could have been the Cheesecake Factory type of menu where everyone can get something they are interested in but nothing really jumps out as a "signature" or "identifying" meal. After all, that would attract more patrons, right?


After being seated without given any menus, the waitress approached and opened with the following: 
"Hello, just want to let you know before you start its cash only. We have 2 items on the menu, a 6 ounce bacon-wrapped filet mignon or a 9 ounce bacon-wrapped filet mignon. Both come with loaded baked potato and texas toast and lettuce wedge."


5 seconds of silence ensued. She stared at us blankly as we had only 1 decision to make.


This inn existed not to give everyone a mediocre experience, but rather to give you a dining experience so memorable that it is worth driving through that city just to have the privilege of eating there again. They were the best filet-potato-toast-lettuce meal in 100 miles, and they knew it. The hostess, the waitress, the cooks, and the tables and chairs and drapes knew it. This place oozed with greatness, and it laughed at the prospect of degrading its offering to try to serve a wider audience.


I have no doubt that they make a hefty margin on their meal offering. Additionally, they're properly insulated from competition moving in should the city start to grow and flourish. Years of doing something so incredibly well has positioned them with an insurmountable competitive advantage against anybody else trying to move into their space.


<a href="http://www.alpineinnhillcity.com/evening_menu.htm">http://www.alpineinnhillcity.com/evening_menu.htm</a>